[Music]
so we here with Aaron Davis also known
by kuma beef
yes so right now we're trying well
minimus lets you hold your own keys for
a theory 'm we're trying to digitize our
infrastructure right now you do all your
reads about the blockchain state from
centralized infrastructure but we want
it to be a proper likely
now that's non-trivial because we can't
access the main network we don't have
the tcp/udp we need in the browser to do
that so we have to do this much larger
engineering project which involves
creating a second network black clients
and that also led us to realize that
there's going to be orders of magnitude
more like clients than full nodes and so
we need to really redesign how like
clients work and how they share data and
how they find each other so they can
share the data they have yada yada yada
so here we've got a little data
visualization of a of a test net in
real-world networking conditions right
now it starts as a little hairball which
is maybe not that interesting but that's
good that means loss of connectivity you
could see there's one part where the
connectivity is not great but and those
are the black bolts the Lex beers right
all right you see detached nodes right
from the grub yeah sorry so MRTC just in
any networking piece and sometimes
you're gonna be able to reach nodes and
I don't know why these ones are
unreachable but in general you have
really good connectivity here
great connectivity here and then no
connect communities right so what's
interesting is that these nodes are
actually reporting to you on your
telemetry server and they're reporting
that they have zero connections right
let's take the rest of this one yes
and so our telemetry server is you know
running in a cloud and much easier to
access than maybe these other peers
which are running on people's laptops so
what I'm especially interested right now
is is the DHT and some performance
characteristics of the DHT especially
running on top of WebRTC and so I have
some other views here we can look at it
and based on their like X or position
their ID so we can also look at
something like their DHT routing table
yeah because they're connected to the
pearsons routing table right so this is
showing us the shape of the network
according to like basically the kunia
distance essentially the kadhi Miyake
space and these are this these lines are
actually showing as the membership right
in routing tables so what peers hold
other peers in their routing tables so
come obvious I think this that demo was
amazing that's kind of tooling is
exactly what we need for to be able to
understand what's going on in
peer-to-peer networks we particularly am
from the Libby to B team and we have to
evolve a lot to get to a place like this
we're probably going to continue working
with comma B's to like get some of his
learnings and get kind of some of his
insights and to how to build these tools
so that we can make them available to
the entire Libby to Bierko system and I
just want to say do you have anything
else that you want to tell the world
yeah we're hiring
thanks the better busty yeah they're
building on these tools yeah yeah so you
want to work remote work on peer-to-peer
stuff in the browser
[Music]